Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. programming language is a formal language, which comprises
a set of instructions used to produce various kinds of output. Programming languages
are used in computer programming to create programs that implement specific algorithms.


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.JDK stands for java development kit. component of jdk is
  1) Run time interpretor.
  2) The compiler
  3)The Debugger
  4)The Applet viewer
  5)The Documentation Generator





What is IDE?
A.Integrated Development Environment.



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ, BlueJ



Explain the entire java life cycle.
Our source code written in java. The compiler named javac compile
all the source code and produce byte code. Then the byte code load to
jvm. loader name is java. jvm verify the byte code and JIT(just intime)
interprete the byte code and operating system give the output.



what is class?
A. Class is an blueprint of an object.


What is object?
A. Object is the instance of a class.


What is the entry point of an application?
A.the entry point of any java application is the main method


Why main is static?
A. main method is the entry point of any application. By declaring
main method static we avoid to create object. main method has to
invoke to jvm.


Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object class.


What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.Path is an environment variable which is used
by the operating system to find the executables.
Classpath is an environment variable which is used by
the Java compiler to find the path, of classes



What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. interface can only have abstract method but abstract class can have both
abstract and nonabstract method.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. we can not make an object from an interface and abstract class. we have to inherit those
to a concrete class and implement the abstract methods and then we make a object of
that concrete class.


what is Access Specifier?
A. Access specitiers are keywords in java that set accessibility
of classes, methods and other members of the class.



What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.

A. object oriented programming.
inheritence: this is when a class has access to the members of its parent without having to be reimplemented.
polymorhism: this is when a class can change the methods of its parents class to fit its specific needs as well as add its own members
encapsulation: this is when we restrict the scope of certain members so that they cannot be manipulated outside of the class where they
are defined, this is achieved with the "private keyword";
abstraction: abstraction is the process of implentation hiding. we use it when we want certain features to be implemented but we dont care
how it is implemented




What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. package is a Java keyword. It declares a 'name space' for the Java class.
It must be put at the top of the Java file, it should be the first Java statement line.
If you omit the package statement while writing the class definition,
the class name is placed into the default package, which has no name.
Java compiler automatically imports this package.
Second, the java.lang package is imported implicitly.





What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.API stands for Application programming interface, it is essentially a service that we use to commuicate one computer
with another.We have used the instagram api, the google maps api, the calender api


Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.java does not allow multiple inheritence, only One parent can be inherited from, but we can get around this by implementing
as many interfaces as we want.




What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. method overloading is the methods with same name but different signature. It happens in compile time.



Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.exceptions are any event that disrupt the natural flow of an application, but can be handled without the need to
terminate the application






What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.the static keyword means that a member belongs to a class rather than a object. static variable belongs to class.
non static variable belongs to object.
By declaring a method static we can call the method by class name.we do not need to create an object.



What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. in final variable you must initialize and assign it. if you declare a method final in subclass you will not able to
modify/override it.


What is final, finally and finalize?
A. in final variable you must initialize and assign it. if you declare a method final in subclass you will not able to
modify/override it.
Finally, java finally block is a block that is used to execute important code such as closing connection
,stream etc. java finally block is always executed wheather exception is handled or not. java finally block
follows try catch block.
Finilize: finalize is called by the garbage collector on an object when garbage collection determines that
there are no more reference to the object.



What is a constructor ?
A. purpose of a constructor is to initialize the object.



Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes



If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
It called default constructor



What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. this keword mean the present class


What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. By super key word we can call the super class variable, methods and also invoke
constructor.


What is JVM stand for ?
java virtual machine




Is JVM platform independent?
yes



What version of java are you using?
jdk 1.8


What is JAR stand for ?
A. java archive


What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.jdk stores all the tools and files need by java to run properly, Jvm is the executioner of java byte code.
jvm is inside the jdk.


What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.It is used to provide
runtime environment.It is the implementation of JVM.It physically exists.
It contains set of libraries + other files that JVM uses at runtime.



What is compile time and run time?
A.compile time is the stage when source code converted to byte code, runtime is when the byte code is being executed


What is heap?
A. heap is a part of RAM where object takes place.


How java manage it's memory?
A. there are three segment of memory.
1)code segment
2)stack
3) heap



What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.String is immutable stringBuffer and stringBuilder are not, stringBuffer is thread safe, StringBuilder is not


What is Singleton class?
A. singleton class allow you to create a single instance with the class.


What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.serialization is the process of converting objects to bytestream, Deserialization is the opposite process


when to use transient variable in java?
A.when we do not want a variable to serialized



Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. while loop check the condition first then do the task. But do while loop does one
task first then check the condition.


What is Enum?
A. enum is a constant data type.

What is Iterator?
A.iterator is a method of the Iterable interface that is used to traverse over a collection



Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. an integer will take more memory because it is a object


Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.Strings are immutable because we cannot change their states once they are instantiated



What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.


The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.serial GC is used for single threaded environments, while Parallel GC is used in multithreaded environments



What is JIT stands for?
A. just intime interpretor


Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. Heap space is the section of memory where objects are stored, Garbage collection
clears the heap of any objects that are not being used


Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A.in java garbage collection is automatic but it cannot be forced and it is not clear when the collection will occur



What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.stacks hold object references  and local primitive variables, heaps store the actual objects



What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.Reflection gives us information about the class to which an object belongs and also the
methods of that class which can be executed by using the object.
One very common use case in Java is the usage with annotations. JUnit 4, for example,
will use reflection to look through your classes for methods tagged
with the @Test annotation, and will then call them when running the unit test.



what is multithreading in java?
A.Multithreading is a Java feature that allows two or more parts of a program to run at the
same time  for maximum utilization of CPU.


What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.we use sychronization to allow only one thread to access a cpu resource at a time.


What is Framework?
A.a framework is a large body of files or classes that we can add to our own code in order to solve a need



What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. testng and junit


Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. testng has all the features of junit plus added features such as dependency testing, group testing,object testing



What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.static binding refers to the calls that can be resolved at compilation time while, dynamic binding are the calls that can be resolved
  only at runtime








